microservices/document-ingestion/pgvector/docs/get-started.md, before:


# Get Started

<!--
**User Story US-1: Setting Up the Microservice**
- **As a developer**, I want to set up the microservice in my environment, so that I can start using it with minimal effort.

**Acceptance Criteria**:
1. Clear instructions for downloading and running the microservice with Docker.
2. Steps for building the microservice from source for advanced users.
3. Verification steps to ensure successful setup.
-->

The following microservices will be deployed with each dedicated to providing a specific capability. The dataprep microservice is essentially the orchestrating microservice providing the ingestion capability and interacting with other microservices to manage the supported capabilities.
- **dataprep microservice**: This acts as the backend application, offering REST APIs which the user can use to interact with the other microservices. It provides interfaces for uploading documents to object storage, creating and storing embeddings, and managing them.
- **vectorDB microservice**: This microservice is based on selected 3rd party vectorDB solution used. In this implementation, PGVector is used as the vectorDB.
- **Embedding microservice**: This provides the embedding service, optimizing the model used for creating and storing embeddings in the vectorDB. OpenAI API is used for creating the embeddings.
- **data store microservice**: This microservice is essentially the 3rd party solution provider. In this implementation, minIO is used as the data store. Standard API provided by minIO (AWS S3) is used for interacting with the microservice.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure the following prerequisites are addressed. Note that these pre-requisites are superceded by the prerequisites listed in respective application using this microservice.

- **System Requirements**: Verify that your system meets the [minimum requirements](./system-requirements.md).
- **Docker Installed**: Install Docker. For installation instructions, see [Get Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).
- **Docker compose installed**: Refer [Install docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).
- **Proxy Configuration (if applicable)**: If the setup is behind a proxy, ensure `http_proxy`, `https_proxy`, and `no_proxy` are properly set on the shell before starting the services.

This guide assumes basic familiarity with Docker commands and terminal usage. If you are new to Docker, see [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) for an introduction.

## Quick start with environment variables
The runner script in root of project `run.sh` sets default values for most of the required environment variables when executed. For sensitive values like `MINIO_ROOT_USER`, `MINIO_ROOT_PASSWD`, `HUGGINGFACEHUB_API_TOKEN` etc. user can export following environment variables in their shell before running the script.

```bash
# User MUST set all these! An error is thrown by docker compose if they are not set.
export HUGGINGFACEHUB_API_TOKEN=<your_huggingface_token>

# vectorDB and object store configuration
export MINIO_USER=<minio_user_or_s3_access_token>
export MINIO_PASSWD=<minio_password_or_s3_secret>
export PGDB_USER=<user_db_user_name>
export PGDB_PASSWD=<user_db_password>
export PGDB_NAME=<user_db_name>
export PGDB_INDEX=<user_db_index>

# HTTP request configuration (optional)
# Set USER_AGENT_HEADER to define a custom User-Agent string for outgoing HTTP requests.
# If not set, a robust default User-Agent is automatically applied
# Setting a clear and descriptive User-Agent helps external servers identify the application and
# reduces the chance of requests being treated as bot traffic.
export USER_AGENT_HEADER=<your_user_agent_string>

# OPTIONAL - If user wants to push the built images to a remote container registry, user needs to name the images accordingly. For this, image name should include the registry URL as well. To do this, set the following environment variable from shell. Please note that this URL will be prefixed to application name and tag to form the final image name.

export CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL=<user_container_registry_url>
```
Refer to [manually customize](./how-to-customize.md) for customization options for the microservice.

## Proxy Configuration

If your environment requires proxy settings, configure the following environment variables before starting the services:

```bash
# Set proxy environment variables
export http_proxy=http://your-proxy-server:port
export https_proxy=https://your-proxy-server:port
export no_proxy=localhost,127.0.0.1,your-internal-hosts
```

**Important Notes:**
- These proxy settings will be automatically passed to all services including the dataprep microservice during build time
- The `no_proxy` variable should include localhost and any internal services that should bypass the proxy
- Ensure these variables are set in the same shell session where you run the `run.sh` script

## Quick Start with Docker

This method provides the fastest way to get started with the microservice.

1. **Clone the repository**:
    Run the following command to clone the repository:
    ```bash
    # Clone the latest on mainline
    git clone https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries.git edge-ai-libraries
    # Alternatively, Clone a specific release branch
    git clone https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries.git edge-ai-libraries -b <release-tag>
    ```

2. **Change to project directory**:
    Start the container using:
    ```bash
    cd edge-ai-libraries/microservices/document-ingestion/pgvector
    ```

3. **Configure the environment variables**:
    Set the required and optional environment variables as mentioned in [quick start with environment variables](#Quick-start-with-environment-variables). Optionally, user can edit the `run.sh` script to add further environment variables as required in their setup.

4. **Verify the configuration**
    ```bash
    source ./run.sh --conf
    # This will output docker compose configs with all the environment variables resolved. The user can verify whether they are configured correctly.
    ```
5. **Start the Microservices**:
    There are different options provided to start the microservices.
    ```bash
    # Run the development environment (only for DataStore) and prod environment for all other services in daemon mode
    source ./run.sh --dev

    # Run the production environment for all services in daemon mode
    source ./run.sh

    # Run the development environment (only for DataStore) and prod environment for all other services in non-daemon mode
    source ./run.sh --dev --nd

    # Run the production environment for all services in non-daemon mode
    source ./run.sh --nd
    ```
6. **Validate the setup**: Open your browser and navigate to:
    ```
    http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/docs
    ```
    **Expected result**: Access to Data Store API Docs should now be available. Go through the DataPrep Service API docs to **upload**, **get** and **delete** documents to create/store/delete embeddings and upload/delete document sources for embeddings. Ensure that access to the DataPrep microservice is done from the same shell where `run.sh` was run. If not, run the script to only set the variables with a *--nosetup* flag: `source ./run.sh --nosetup`

## Cleanup and Management

The microservice provides several cleanup options for managing Docker images and containers:

### Stop Services
```bash
# Stop and remove all running containers
source ./run.sh --down
```

### Image Cleanup
```bash
# Remove all project-related Docker images (uses Docker labels for accurate cleanup)
source ./run.sh --clean

# Remove only dataprep service images
source ./run.sh --clean dataprep

# Complete cleanup - removes containers, images, volumes, and networks
source ./run.sh --purge
```

**Note**: The cleanup commands use Docker labels to identify and remove images, ensuring that custom-tagged images built with `--build` are properly cleaned up regardless of their tag names.

<!--
**User Story US-2: Running and Exploring the Microservice**
- **As a developer**, I want to execute a predefined task or pipeline with the microservice, so that I can understand its functionality.

**Acceptance Criteria**:
1. Instructions to run a basic task or query using the microservice.
2. Examples of expected outputs for validation.
-->

## Application Usage:

## Type 1: Upload Files

Try uploading a sample PDF file and verify that the embeddings and files are stored. Run the commands from the same shell as where the environment variables are set.

1. Download a sample PDF file:
    ```bash
    curl -LO https://github.com/py-pdf/sample-files/blob/main/001-trivial/minimal-document.pdf
    ```

2. POST the file to create embedding and store in object storage.
   ```bash
   curl -X POST "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/documents" \
       -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
       -F "files=@./minimal-document.pdf"
   ```

3. Verify whether embeddings were created and document was uploaded to object storage.
    ```bash
    curl -X GET "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/documents"
    ```
   Expected output: A JSON response with details of the file should be printed.

4.  Get the `bucket_name` and `file_name` from GET call response in step 3 and use it in the DELETE request below.
    ```bash
    curl -X DELETE "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/documents?bucket_name=<bucket_name>&file_name=<file_name>"
    ```

5. To clean-up, delete the sample pdf file.
   ```bash
   rm -rf ./minimal-document.pdf
   ```

## Type 2: Upload URLs

Try uploading web page URLs and verify that the embeddings are created and stored. Run the commands from the same shell as where the environment variables are set.

 > **Note**: This URL ingestion microservice works best with pages that are not heavily reliant on JavaScript such as Wikipedia, which serve as ideal URL input sources. For JavaScript-intensive pages (social media feeds, Single Page Applications), the API may indicate a successful request but the actual content might not be captured. Such pages should be avoided or handled separately.
 
1. **Get stored URLs**:
   Retrieve a list of all URLs that have been processed and stored in the system.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'GET' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls" \
     -H 'accept: application/json'
   ```

2. **Upload URLs to create and store embeddings**:
   Submit one or more URLs to be processed for embedding creation.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'POST' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls" \
     -H 'accept: application/json' \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '[
     "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat",
     "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lunar_eclipse"
   ]'
   ```

3. **Verify the URLs were processed**:
   Check that the URLs were successfully processed and stored.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'GET' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls" \
     -H 'accept: application/json'
   ```
   Expected output: A JSON response with the list of processed URLs should be printed.

4. **Delete a specific URL or all URLs**:
   Get the URL from the GET call response in step 3 and use it in the DELETE request below.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'DELETE' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls?url=<url_to_be_deleted>&delete_all=false" \
     -H 'accept: */*'
   ```

   **Note**:
   - Optionally set `delete_all=true` if you want to delete all URLs from the database instead of a specific URL

## Advanced Setup Options

To customize the microservice, refer to [customization documentation](./how-to-customize.md).
<!--- [How to Deploy with Helm](./deploy-with-helm.md)-->


## Supporting Resources

- [API Reference](dataprep-api.yml)

Commit message:

Fix for issues identified during RC1 validation (10Nov) (#1209)
Co-authored-by: Hoong Tee, Yeoh <hoong.tee.yeoh@intel.com>

microservices/document-ingestion/pgvector/docs/get-started.md, after:


# Get Started

<!--
**User Story US-1: Setting Up the Microservice**
- **As a developer**, I want to set up the microservice in my environment, so that I can start using it with minimal effort.

**Acceptance Criteria**:
1. Clear instructions for downloading and running the microservice with Docker.
2. Steps for building the microservice from source for advanced users.
3. Verification steps to ensure successful setup.
-->

The following microservices will be deployed with each dedicated to providing a specific capability. The dataprep microservice is essentially the orchestrating microservice providing the ingestion capability and interacting with other microservices to manage the supported capabilities.
- **dataprep microservice**: This acts as the backend application, offering REST APIs which the user can use to interact with the other microservices. It provides interfaces for uploading documents to object storage, creating and storing embeddings, and managing them.
- **vectorDB microservice**: This microservice is based on selected 3rd party vectorDB solution used. In this implementation, PGVector is used as the vectorDB.
- **Embedding microservice**: This provides the embedding service, optimizing the model used for creating and storing embeddings in the vectorDB. OpenAI API is used for creating the embeddings.
- **data store microservice**: This microservice is essentially the 3rd party solution provider. In this implementation, minIO is used as the data store. Standard API provided by minIO (AWS S3) is used for interacting with the microservice.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure the following prerequisites are addressed. Note that these pre-requisites are superceded by the prerequisites listed in respective application using this microservice.

- **System Requirements**: Verify that your system meets the [minimum requirements](./system-requirements.md).
- **Docker Installed**: Install Docker. For installation instructions, see [Get Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).
- **Docker compose installed**: Refer [Install docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).
- **Proxy Configuration (if applicable)**: If the setup is behind a proxy, ensure `http_proxy`, `https_proxy`, and `no_proxy` are properly set on the shell before starting the services.

This guide assumes basic familiarity with Docker commands and terminal usage. If you are new to Docker, see [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) for an introduction.

## Quick start with environment variables
The runner script in root of project `run.sh` sets default values for most of the required environment variables when executed. For sensitive values like `MINIO_ROOT_USER`, `MINIO_ROOT_PASSWD`, `HUGGINGFACEHUB_API_TOKEN` etc. user can export following environment variables in their shell before running the script.

```bash
# User MUST set all these! An error is thrown by docker compose if they are not set.
export HUGGINGFACEHUB_API_TOKEN=<your_huggingface_token>

# vectorDB and object store configuration
export MINIO_USER=<minio_user_or_s3_access_token>
export MINIO_PASSWD=<minio_password_or_s3_secret>
export PGDB_USER=<user_db_user_name>
export PGDB_PASSWD=<user_db_password>
export PGDB_NAME=<user_db_name>
export PGDB_INDEX=<user_db_index>

# HTTP request configuration (optional)
# Set USER_AGENT_HEADER to define a custom User-Agent string for outgoing HTTP requests.
# If not set, a robust default User-Agent is automatically applied
# Setting a clear and descriptive User-Agent helps external servers identify the application and
# reduces the chance of requests being treated as bot traffic.
export USER_AGENT_HEADER=<your_user_agent_string>

# OPTIONAL - If user wants to push the built images to a remote container registry, user needs to name the images accordingly. For this, image name should include the registry URL as well. To do this, set the following environment variable from shell. Please note that this URL will be prefixed to application name and tag to form the final image name.

export CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL=<user_container_registry_url>
```
Refer to [manually customize](./how-to-customize.md) for customization options for the microservice.

## Proxy Configuration

If your environment requires proxy settings, configure the following environment variables before starting the services:

```bash
# Set proxy environment variables
export http_proxy=http://your-proxy-server:port
export https_proxy=https://your-proxy-server:port
export no_proxy=localhost,127.0.0.1,your-internal-hosts
```

**Important Notes:**
- These proxy settings will be automatically passed to all services including the dataprep microservice during build time
- The `no_proxy` variable should include localhost and any internal services that should bypass the proxy
- Ensure these variables are set in the same shell session where you run the `run.sh` script

## Quick Start with Docker

This method provides the fastest way to get started with the microservice.

1. **Clone the repository**:
    Run the following command to clone the repository:
    ```bash
    # Clone the latest on mainline
    git clone https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries.git edge-ai-libraries
    # Alternatively, Clone a specific release branch
    git clone https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries.git edge-ai-libraries -b <release-tag>
    ```

2. **Change to project directory**:
    Start the container using:
    ```bash
    cd edge-ai-libraries/microservices/document-ingestion/pgvector
    ```

3. **Configure the environment variables**:
    Set the required and optional environment variables as mentioned in [quick start with environment variables](#Quick-start-with-environment-variables). Optionally, user can edit the `run.sh` script to add further environment variables as required in their setup.

4. **Verify the configuration**
    ```bash
    source ./run.sh --conf
    # This will output docker compose configs with all the environment variables resolved. The user can verify whether they are configured correctly.
    ```
    The valid configuration will ensure the latest prebuilt image from `intel` registry is downloaded. The scripts take care of this.
5. **Start the Microservices**:
    There are different options provided to start the microservices.
    ```bash
    # Run the development environment (only for DataStore) and prod environment for all other services in daemon mode
    source ./run.sh --dev

    # Run the production environment for all services in daemon mode
    source ./run.sh

    # Run the development environment (only for DataStore) and prod environment for all other services in non-daemon mode
    source ./run.sh --dev --nd

    # Run the production environment for all services in non-daemon mode
    source ./run.sh --nd
    ```
6. **Validate the setup**: Open your browser and navigate to:
    ```
    http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/docs
    ```
    **Expected result**: Access to Data Store API Docs should now be available. Go through the DataPrep Service API docs to **upload**, **get** and **delete** documents to create/store/delete embeddings and upload/delete document sources for embeddings. Ensure that access to the DataPrep microservice is done from the same shell where `run.sh` was run. If not, run the script to only set the variables with a *--nosetup* flag: `source ./run.sh --nosetup`

## Cleanup and Management

The microservice provides several cleanup options for managing Docker images and containers:

### Stop Services
```bash
# Stop and remove all running containers
source ./run.sh --down
```

### Image Cleanup
```bash
# Remove all project-related Docker images (uses Docker labels for accurate cleanup)
source ./run.sh --clean

# Remove only dataprep service images
source ./run.sh --clean dataprep

# Complete cleanup - removes containers, images, volumes, and networks
source ./run.sh --purge
```

**Note**: The cleanup commands use Docker labels to identify and remove images, ensuring that custom-tagged images built with `--build` are properly cleaned up regardless of their tag names.

<!--
**User Story US-2: Running and Exploring the Microservice**
- **As a developer**, I want to execute a predefined task or pipeline with the microservice, so that I can understand its functionality.

**Acceptance Criteria**:
1. Instructions to run a basic task or query using the microservice.
2. Examples of expected outputs for validation.
-->

## Application Usage:

## Type 1: Upload Files

Try uploading a sample PDF file and verify that the embeddings and files are stored. Run the commands from the same shell as where the environment variables are set.

1. Download a sample PDF file:
    ```bash
    curl -LO https://github.com/py-pdf/sample-files/blob/main/001-trivial/minimal-document.pdf
    ```

2. POST the file to create embedding and store in object storage.
   ```bash
   curl -X POST "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/documents" \
       -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
       -F "files=@./minimal-document.pdf"
   ```

3. Verify whether embeddings were created and document was uploaded to object storage.
    ```bash
    curl -X GET "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/documents"
    ```
   Expected output: A JSON response with details of the file should be printed.

4.  Get the `bucket_name` and `file_name` from GET call response in step 3 and use it in the DELETE request below.
    ```bash
    curl -X DELETE "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/documents?bucket_name=<bucket_name>&file_name=<file_name>"
    ```

5. To clean-up, delete the sample pdf file.
   ```bash
   rm -rf ./minimal-document.pdf
   ```

## Type 2: Upload URLs

Try uploading web page URLs and verify that the embeddings are created and stored. Run the commands from the same shell as where the environment variables are set.

 > **Note**: This URL ingestion microservice works best with pages that are not heavily reliant on JavaScript such as Wikipedia, which serve as ideal URL input sources. For JavaScript-intensive pages (social media feeds, Single Page Applications), the API may indicate a successful request but the actual content might not be captured. Such pages should be avoided or handled separately.
 
1. **Get stored URLs**:
   Retrieve a list of all URLs that have been processed and stored in the system.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'GET' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls" \
     -H 'accept: application/json'
   ```

2. **Upload URLs to create and store embeddings**:
   Submit one or more URLs to be processed for embedding creation.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'POST' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls" \
     -H 'accept: application/json' \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '[
     "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat",
     "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lunar_eclipse"
   ]'
   ```

3. **Verify the URLs were processed**:
   Check that the URLs were successfully processed and stored.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'GET' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls" \
     -H 'accept: application/json'
   ```
   Expected output: A JSON response with the list of processed URLs should be printed.

4. **Delete a specific URL or all URLs**:
   Get the URL from the GET call response in step 3 and use it in the DELETE request below.
   ```bash
   curl -X 'DELETE' \
     "http://${host_ip}:${DATAPREP_HOST_PORT}/urls?url=<url_to_be_deleted>&delete_all=false" \
     -H 'accept: */*'
   ```

   **Note**:
   - Optionally set `delete_all=true` if you want to delete all URLs from the database instead of a specific URL

## Advanced Setup Options

To customize the microservice, refer to [customization documentation](./how-to-customize.md).
<!--- [How to Deploy with Helm](./deploy-with-helm.md)-->


## Supporting Resources

- [API Reference](dataprep-api.yml)
