tools/npu-monitor-tool/README.md, before:

# NPU System Monitoring Tool (npu-monitor-tool)

## Overview

The NPU System Monitoring Tool (`npu-monitor-tool`) is a comprehensive command-line utility
for monitoring Neural Processing Unit (NPU) performance metrics in real-time. This tool provides
detailed insights into Intel NPU operations, enabling developers and system administrators
to track and analyze NPU performance.

### Key Features

- **Real-time Performance Monitoring**: Continuously monitor NPU metrics at customizable intervals
- **Power Consumption Tracking**: Monitor power usage in watts
- **Thermal Management**: Track NPU temperature in Celsius
- **Utilization Metrics**: View processing unit utilization percentage
- **Memory Monitoring**: Track memory usage in MB/GB
- **Frequency Information**: Display operating frequency in Hz
- **Bandwidth Analysis**: Monitor NPU DDR average bandwidth in MB/s or GB/s
- **Tile Configuration**: View current tile configuration
- **CSV Export**: Export metrics to CSV format for data analysis and visualization

### Supported Platforms

The tool supports the following Intel CPU generations with integrated NPU:
- **Meteor Lake (MTL)**
- **Arrow Lake (ARL)**
- **Lunar Lake (LNL)**
- **Panther Lake (PTL)**

### Requirements

- Linux operating system
- Intel NPU with `intel_vpu` driver loaded
- Python 3
- Root or appropriate permissions to access sysfs interfaces
- PMT (Platform Monitoring Technology) support enabled. (spec: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/content-details/710389/intel-platform-monitoring-technology-intel-pmt-technical-specification.html)

## How to Use

### Basic Usage

Run the tool once to get a snapshot of current NPU metrics:

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py
```

### Continuous Monitoring

Monitor NPU metrics continuously with a specified interval (in milliseconds):

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py -i 1000
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py -i 1000
```

This will update the display every 1000ms (1 second).

### Verbose Output

Enable verbose output for debugging purposes:

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py -v
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py -v
```

### CSV Export

Export metrics to a CSV file for analysis:

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py --csv -i 1000
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py --csv -i 1000
```

The CSV file will contain the following columns:
- timestamp
- power (W)
- frequency (Hz)
- bandwidth (MB/s or GB/s)
- tile_config
- temperature (°C)
- utilization (%)
- memory_usage (MB)

### Command-Line Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-i, --interval <msec>` | Probing interval in milliseconds for continuous monitoring |
| `-v, --verbose` | Enable verbose output with debug information |
| `--csv` | Output data in CSV format into the npu_output folder with timestamped filename. |
| `-h, --help` | Display help message and exit |

### Example Output

```
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| INTEL NPU Device: 0x7d1d | version:                                          1.0.0 |
| Firmware version: IVPU_MTL_20240112_v2024.01                                                 |
|                                                                                               |
+===============================================================================================+
|       Power Usage        |      DPU Freq        | NPU DDR Average Bandwidth |    Tile Conf    |
|                2.5 [W]   |        1400 [Hz]     |               123.45 [MB/s] |               4 |
+===============================================================================================+
|       NPU Temperature    |       NPU Utilization       |      Memory Usage                    |
|              45 [°C]     |                       25%   |                         512.00 [MB] |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Troubleshooting

**Error: "Intel NPU driver 'intel_vpu' seems not to be loaded"**
- Ensure the Intel NPU driver is loaded: `lsmod | grep intel_vpu`
- Load the driver if needed: `sudo modprobe intel_vpu`

**Error: "PMT sysfs interface not found"**
- Verify PMT support is enabled in your kernel
- Check if `/sys/class/intel_pmt` exists

**Error: "No CPU telemetry devices found with known GUIDs"**
- Your CPU generation may not be supported
- Ensure you're running on a supported Intel platform with NPU

### Permissions

The tool requires root privileges or appropriate permissions to access:
- `/sys/class/intel_pmt/` - PMT telemetry interface
- `/sys/bus/pci/drivers/intel_vpu/` - NPU driver interface
- `/sys/kernel/debug/accel/` - NPU debug interface

Commit message:

[NPU monitor tool] only read npu_memory_utilization on PTL+ (#1778)
Signed-off-by: Zawawi, Muhammad Zul Husni <muhammad.zul.husni.zawawi@intel.com>

tools/npu-monitor-tool/README.md, after:

# NPU System Monitoring Tool (npu-monitor-tool)

## Overview

The NPU System Monitoring Tool (`npu-monitor-tool`) is a comprehensive command-line utility
for monitoring Neural Processing Unit (NPU) performance metrics in real-time. This tool provides
detailed insights into Intel NPU operations, enabling developers and system administrators
to track and analyze NPU performance.

### Key Features

- **Real-time Performance Monitoring**: Continuously monitor NPU metrics at customizable intervals
- **Power Consumption Tracking**: Monitor power usage in watts
- **Thermal Management**: Track NPU temperature in Celsius
- **Utilization Metrics**: View processing unit utilization percentage
- **Memory Monitoring**: Track memory usage in MB/GB (PTL and later)
- **Frequency Information**: Display operating frequency in Hz
- **Bandwidth Analysis**: Monitor NPU DDR average bandwidth in MB/s or GB/s
- **Tile Configuration**: View current tile configuration
- **CSV Export**: Export metrics to CSV format for data analysis and visualization

Disclaimer: The utilization percentage is a calculated metric, based on the difference in NPU busy timestamps when the inference starts and ends on NPU. It does not represent an exact hardware-level measurement. Hence, this metric is an approximation of workload and not a precise hardware utilization figure.

### Supported Platforms

The tool supports the following Intel CPU generations with integrated NPU:
- **Meteor Lake (MTL)**
- **Arrow Lake (ARL)**
- **Lunar Lake (LNL)**
- **Panther Lake (PTL)**

### Requirements

- Linux operating system
- Intel NPU with `intel_vpu` driver loaded
- Python 3
- Root or appropriate permissions to access sysfs interfaces
- PMT (Platform Monitoring Technology) support enabled. (spec: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/content-details/710389/intel-platform-monitoring-technology-intel-pmt-technical-specification.html)

## How to Use

### Basic Usage

Run the tool once to get a snapshot of current NPU metrics:

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py
```

### Continuous Monitoring

Monitor NPU metrics continuously with a specified interval (in milliseconds):

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py -i 1000
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py -i 1000
```

This will update the display every 1000ms (1 second).

### Verbose Output

Enable verbose output for debugging purposes:

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py -v
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py -v
```

### CSV Export

Export metrics to a CSV file for analysis:

```bash
sudo ./npu-monitor-tool.py --csv -i 1000
or
sudo python3 npu-monitor-tool.py --csv -i 1000
```

The CSV file will contain the following columns:
- timestamp
- power (W)
- frequency (Hz)
- bandwidth (MB/s or GB/s)
- tile_config
- temperature (°C)
- utilization (%)
- memory_usage (MB)

### Command-Line Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-i, --interval <msec>` | Probing interval in milliseconds for continuous monitoring |
| `-v, --verbose` | Enable verbose output with debug information |
| `--csv` | Output data in CSV format into the npu_output folder with timestamped filename. |
| `-h, --help` | Display help message and exit |

### Example Output

```
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| INTEL NPU Device: 0x7d1d | version:                                          1.0.0 |
| Firmware version: IVPU_MTL_20240112_v2024.01                                                 |
|                                                                                               |
+===============================================================================================+
|       Power Usage        |      DPU Freq        | NPU DDR Average Bandwidth |    Tile Conf    |
|                2.5 [W]   |        1400 [Hz]     |               123.45 [MB/s] |               4 |
+===============================================================================================+
|       NPU Temperature    |       NPU Utilization       |      Memory Usage                    |
|              45 [°C]     |                       25%   |                         512.00 [MB] |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Troubleshooting

**Error: "Intel NPU driver 'intel_vpu' seems not to be loaded"**
- Ensure the Intel NPU driver is loaded: `lsmod | grep intel_vpu`
- Load the driver if needed: `sudo modprobe intel_vpu`

**Error: "PMT sysfs interface not found"**
- Verify PMT support is enabled in your kernel
- Check if `/sys/class/intel_pmt` exists

**Error: "No CPU telemetry devices found with known GUIDs"**
- Your CPU generation may not be supported
- Ensure you're running on a supported Intel platform with NPU

### Permissions

The tool requires root privileges or appropriate permissions to access:
- `/sys/class/intel_pmt/` - PMT telemetry interface
- `/sys/bus/pci/drivers/intel_vpu/` - NPU driver interface
- `/sys/kernel/debug/accel/` - NPU debug interface
