tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool/docs/user-guide/index.md, before:

# Visual Pipeline and Platform Evaluation Tool

<!--hide_directive
<div class="component_card_widget">
  <a class="icon_github" href="https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries/tree/main/tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool">
     GitHub project
  </a>
  <a class="icon_document" href="https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries/blob/main/tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool/README.md">
     Readme
  </a>
</div>
hide_directive-->

Assess Intel® hardware options, benchmark performance, and analyze key metrics to optimize hardware selection for AI workloads.

![demonstration of the UI in use](./_assets/ViPPET-README.gif)

## Overview

The Visual Pipeline and Platform Evaluation Tool simplifies hardware selection for AI workloads
by enabling configuration of workload parameters, performance benchmarking, and analysis of key
metrics such as throughput, CPU usage, and GPU usage. With its intuitive interface, the tool
provides actionable insights that support optimized hardware selection and performance tuning.

## Use Cases

**Evaluating Hardware for AI Workloads**: Intel® hardware options can be assessed to balance
cost, performance, and efficiency. AI workloads can be benchmarked under real-world conditions
by adjusting pipeline parameters and comparing performance metrics.

**Performance Benchmarking for AI Models**: Model performance targets and KPIs can be validated
by testing AI inference pipelines with different accelerators to measure throughput, latency,
and resource utilization.

## Key Features

**Optimized for Intel® AI Edge Systems**: Pipelines can be run directly on target devices for
seamless Intel® hardware integration.

**Comprehensive Hardware Evaluation**: Metrics such as CPU frequency, GPU power usage, and
memory utilization are available for detailed analysis.

**Configurable AI Pipelines**: Parameters such as input channels, object detection models, and
inference engines can be adjusted to create tailored performance tests.

**Automated Video Generation**: Synthetic test videos can be generated to evaluate system
performance under controlled conditions.

### **Workflow Overview**

**Data Ingestion**: Video streams from live cameras or recorded files are provided and pipeline
parameters are configured to match evaluation needs.

**AI Processing**: AI inference is applied using OpenVINO™ models to detect objects in the
video streams.

**Performance Evaluation**: Hardware performance metrics are collected, including CPU/GPU usage
and power consumption.

**Visualization & Analysis**: Real-time performance metrics are displayed on the dashboard to
enable comparison of configurations and optimization of settings.

## Learn More

- [System Requirements](./system-requirements)
- [Get Started](./get-started)
- [How to Build Source](./how-to-build-source)
- [How to use Video Generator](./how-to-use-video-generator)
- [Release Notes](./release-notes)

<!--hide_directive
:::{toctree}
:hidden:

system-requirements
get-started
release-notes
how-to-build-source
using-vippet
how-to-use-video-generator
api-reference
disclaimers
known-issues
GitHub <https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries/tree/main/tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool>

:::
hide_directive-->

Commit message:

[ViPPET] Add guide for using custom gvapython scripts (#1716)

tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool/docs/user-guide/index.md, after:

# Visual Pipeline and Platform Evaluation Tool

<!--hide_directive
<div class="component_card_widget">
  <a class="icon_github" href="https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries/tree/main/tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool">
     GitHub project
  </a>
  <a class="icon_document" href="https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries/blob/main/tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool/README.md">
     Readme
  </a>
</div>
hide_directive-->

Assess Intel® hardware options, benchmark performance, and analyze key metrics to optimize hardware selection for AI workloads.

![demonstration of the UI in use](./_assets/ViPPET-README.gif)

## Overview

The Visual Pipeline and Platform Evaluation Tool simplifies hardware selection for AI workloads
by enabling configuration of workload parameters, performance benchmarking, and analysis of key
metrics such as throughput, CPU usage, and GPU usage. With its intuitive interface, the tool
provides actionable insights that support optimized hardware selection and performance tuning.

## Use Cases

**Evaluating Hardware for AI Workloads**: Intel® hardware options can be assessed to balance
cost, performance, and efficiency. AI workloads can be benchmarked under real-world conditions
by adjusting pipeline parameters and comparing performance metrics.

**Performance Benchmarking for AI Models**: Model performance targets and KPIs can be validated
by testing AI inference pipelines with different accelerators to measure throughput, latency,
and resource utilization.

## Key Features

**Optimized for Intel® AI Edge Systems**: Pipelines can be run directly on target devices for
seamless Intel® hardware integration.

**Comprehensive Hardware Evaluation**: Metrics such as CPU frequency, GPU power usage, and
memory utilization are available for detailed analysis.

**Configurable AI Pipelines**: Parameters such as input channels, object detection models, and
inference engines can be adjusted to create tailored performance tests.

**Automated Video Generation**: Synthetic test videos can be generated to evaluate system
performance under controlled conditions.

### **Workflow Overview**

**Data Ingestion**: Video streams from live cameras or recorded files are provided and pipeline
parameters are configured to match evaluation needs.

**AI Processing**: AI inference is applied using OpenVINO™ models to detect objects in the
video streams.

**Performance Evaluation**: Hardware performance metrics are collected, including CPU/GPU usage
and power consumption.

**Visualization & Analysis**: Real-time performance metrics are displayed on the dashboard to
enable comparison of configurations and optimization of settings.

## Learn More

- [System Requirements](./system-requirements)
- [Get Started](./get-started)
- [How to Build Source](./how-to-build-source)
- [How to use gvapython scripts](./how-to-use-gvapython-scripts)
- [How to use Video Generator](./how-to-use-video-generator)
- [Release Notes](./release-notes)

<!--hide_directive
:::{toctree}
:hidden:

system-requirements
get-started
release-notes
how-to-build-source
using-vippet
how-to-use-gvapython-scripts
how-to-use-video-generator
api-reference
disclaimers
known-issues
GitHub <https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-ai-libraries/tree/main/tools/visual-pipeline-and-platform-evaluation-tool>

:::
hide_directive-->
